## XML TRANSFORMATION ##
@amit


----------
This documentation contains description and steps used to construct eXtensible stylesheet for converting GUI obtained xml into Scilab compatible xml.

----------

###Introduction
XSL stands for EXtensible Stylesheet Language, and is a style sheet language for XML documents. XSLT is used to transform an XML document into another XML document, or another type of document that is recognized by a browser, like HTML and XHTML.
We took help of XCOS's XML Schema ( XML Schema defines the legal building blocks of an XML document ) to convert xml generated by GUI into Scilab compatible xml.

###XSLT Overview

 - XSLT "xsl:template" Element :   The "xsl:template" element is used to build templates and its match attribute is used to associate a template with an XML element.
 - XSLT "xsl:value-of" Element :   The "xsl:value-of" element is used to extract the value of an XML element and add it to the output stream of the transformation.
 - XSLT "xsl:if" Element :   The "xsl:if" Element is used to put a conditional if test against the content of the XML file.
 - XSLT "xsl:choose" Element :   The "xsl:choose" element is used in conjunction with "xsl:when" and "xsl:otherwise" to express multiple conditional tests.
 - XSLT "xsl:apply-templates" Element :   The "xsl:apply-templates" element applies a template to the current element or to the current element's child nodes.
 - XSLT "xsl:element" Element :   The "xsl:element" element is used to create an element node in the output document and "xsl:attribute" element is used to add attributes to elements.
 

###XSLT Description

 - First of all we use"xsl:template match="/" " to define the whole document and make element "XcosDiagram" for our Scilab compatible xml.
 - Then we use "xsl:template match="mxCell" " and "xsl:choose" Element to express multiple conditional tests according to "style" attribute of "mxCell".
 - Then we define templates for all the xcos' blocks and ports with the help of XCOS's xsd (XML Schema) which are recursively called by "xsl:apply-templates/" as and when encountered by GUI generated xml.
 - According to XCOS's xsd (XML Schema) following elements can occur inside "root" element of GUI generated xml and we have to define template for each of them using XCOS's xsd.
	- "BasicBlock"
	- "CommandPort"
	- "ControlPort"
	- "ExplicitInputPort"
	- "ExplicitOutputPort"
	- "ImplicitInputPort"
	- "ImplicitOutputPort"
	- "mxCell"
	- "AfficheBlock"
	- "BigSom"
	- "CommandControlLink"
	- "ConstBlock"
	- "EventInBlock"
	- "EventOutBlock"
	- "ExplicitInBlock"
	- "ExplicitLink"
	- "ExplicitOutBlock"
	- "GainBlock"
	- "GroundBlock"
	- "ImplicitInBlock"
	- "ImplicitLink"
	- "ImplicitOutBlock"
	- "PrintBlock"
	- "Product"
	- "RoundBlock"
	- "SplitBlock"
	- "Summation"
	- "SuperBlock"
	- "TextBlock"
	- "VoltageSensorBlock"
 - For eg. "ExplicitLink" element can have "id" ,"style" ,"value" as its attribute. So we will define its template as :
 

        <xsl:template name="ExplicitLink" match="ExplicitLink">
        <xsl:element name="ExplicitLink">
            <xsl:if test="@id">
                <xsl:attribute name="id">
                    <xsl:value-of select="@id" />
                </xsl:attribute>
            </xsl:if>
            <xsl:if test="@style">
                <xsl:attribute name="style">
                    <xsl:value-of select="@style" />
                </xsl:attribute>
            </xsl:if>
            <xsl:if test="@value">
                <xsl:attribute name="value">
                    <xsl:value-of select="@value" />
                </xsl:attribute>
            </xsl:if>
            <xsl:apply-templates />
        </xsl:element>
    	</xsl:template>

